* That's a game
that I hate to lose *
* And I'm feeling the strain *
* Ain't it a shame? *
* Oh, give me the beat, boys,
and free my soul *
* I wanna get lost
in your rock and roll *
* And drift away
* Oh, give me the beat, boys,
and free my soul *
* I wanna get lost
in your rock and roll *
* And drift away...
* Beginning to think
that I'm wasting time *
* I don't understand
the things I do *
* Girl, outside looks
so unkind *
* I'm counting on you *
* To carry me through
* Oh, give me the beat, boys,
and free my soul *
* I wanna get lost
in your rock and roll *
* And drift away...
DAVID: The victim's husband,
Judge Franklin Trelane,
Central Division.
When did he get here?
The marshals drove him over
about half an hour ago.
He was right in the
middle of a trial.
What's the trial about?
Asian gang-bangers;
death penalty case.
We've already started
running down
the defendant's
known associates.
Her car was in the shop.
She borrowed his.
COLBY: You know, you take the
oath,
they give us a gun, we
go into public service
with our eyes open,
but nobody tells us
our families are fair game.
They're not.
( sighs )
DAVID: Spray pattern suggests
that, um,
the guy waited
for her to pull in,
for the garage door to close,
and he opened fire.
Probably waiting
on this side,
He could've rubbed
up against any of this stuff,
- so let's check this.
- TECH: Yes, sir.
If the suspect's
breaking into the garage,
the victim comes in
and surprises him...
12-gauge isn't
a burglar's tool, though.
You got four shots,
point blank--
ain't a surprise.
That's premeditation.
So murder was the object.
I'm just wondering
who the target was--
the wife or the judge?
( echoing ):
We all use math every day...
to predict weather...
to tell time...
to handle money...
Math is more than formulas
and equations.
It's logic.
Math is more than formulas
and equations.
It's rationality.
It's using your mind to solve
the biggest mysteries we know.
MEGAN: We searched the criminal
histories
and the psych profiles
that might have a tilt
towards retaliation
and the inclination
to act on it.
Now, are you assuming
that Alison
Trelane's killer
is someone that the
husband put in jail?
Yeah.
We're thinking the judge
was the intended target,
not the wife.
Right, no, yeah, I-I understand,
but, uh, your suspects
aren't limited
only to people who were
convicted by the judge, right?
That's right;
there's also family members,
friends, co-conspirators...
The possibilities
are exponential.
Um...
"exponential" would mean that
the growth rate
is proportionate to its size,
so, yeah,
the mathematically
correct term would be...
"more."
( wry laugh )
Well, call it whatever
you want, Charlie,
but, I mean...
I mean, this is going
to take a lot of time.
Not necessarily.
You can create
a Bayesian filter.
I could,
if I had any idea
what that meant.
Do you ever get
any junk e-mail or spam?
Yeah.
Well, that's why they
create spam filters--
to filter out junk e-mail
from regular e-mail.
And spam filters are Bayesian
filters, and what they do
is they calculate
the probabilities
that an e-mail
is spam, given that it has
certain words
like, uh, "refinance,"
"stocks," "Viagra."
And you can do
something similar
to narrow down
the list of suspects?
I can create a filter
that uses
your criteria
to reduce the list of suspects
to people most likely to kill
a judge's wife.
Judge Franklin Trelane's
been on the bench 18 years;
12 before that as a
federal prosecutor.
I figured I'd
start generating
threat assessments.
Threat assessments?!
Yeah, Granger.
Behavioral analyses
based on documentation--
court transcripts,
death threats,
pre-sentencing
psych evals.
Right.
In other words, profiling.
You make it sound
like a bad word.
No, just never thought
"coulda, woulda, shoulda"
figured very well
into a homicide investigation.
COLBY: What? What's she gonna
tell us--
the guy we're looking for
had a bad childhood?
You know, not all sociopaths
have bad childhoods.
As a matter of fact,
some law enforcement
personnel exhibit
the same characteristics.
COLBY:
Yeah, well, not this one.
If it quacks like a Duc...
DAVID: Defendant facing the
death penalty
in front of Trelane.
Sort of fits the profile
of a guy who might want
to whack his judge, huh?
Yeah.
I'm sorry for the timing.
Don't be, Agent.
We both have our work to get to.
Can you think of anyone
who might have a motive
for killing
your wife?
Someone who objected to her work
for the American
Heart Association
or a fellow member
of her horticulture club?
This murder was an attack on me,
on the bench.
We both know that.
And the case
you're trying now...
Duc Lu Phan.
He's a leader
of a local street gang.
Facing you
for the death penalty.
I realize that, but if I talk
to you any more about him,
I'll have to walk away
from the case.
All right, well, we're going to
try to run it down another way,
but you should be prepared
for that.
I'm sure his lawyer will make
a motion to have me step aside,
but I'd rather make
that decision on my own.
Yes, I-I understand.
Violence and tragedy--
they walk
through my courtroom
five days a week,
and I assign them values.
Your grief is worth five years,
hers is worth 20.
One of those decisions
killed Alison.
What is my grief worth?
So, what's "JFM," Duc?
Name's Danny.
Danny. Well, then,
what's "JFM," Danny?
It stands for
"Just For Money."
It's an L.A.-based
Vietnamese street gang.
Community support organization.
( David scoffs )
The "community
support"
includes the kidnapping
and murder of Asian immigrants.
COLBY: Yeah, okay, I got that
right here.
Wow, I see you were
just convicted
on multiple kidnapping
and murder charges.
Look at this--
the presiding judge
is Franklin Trelane.
Why am I not surprised?
A judge's wife
gets killed,
you blame it on the guy
you can find the fastest.
You know,
the fact is
you are the name
on everyone's lips.
And, yeah,
I wouldn't want to be you
in Franklin Trelane's courtroom.
That's exactly what I'm saying.
I've got no motive
- to put a hit out on her.
- What about someone
who's trying to do you a favor?
What kind of favor
would that be?
That's exactly what I'm saying.
Raymond.
You mean Raymond Hmong,
your number-two man?
We've had a few beefs
since I been locked up, but...
But you get
the needle,
Raymond moves up
to number one, right?
It's my
favorite G-man.
Nadine. You know, I was
just thinking about you.
- Yeah?
- Yeah.
What was I wearing?
Well, actually,
I didn't get that far, but...
Well, that
sounds familiar.
What are you
doing down here?
Uh, Judge Trelane.
Oh, you're investigating
his wife's murder.
Oh, yeah, that's right.
Actually, you're
in front of him
for Duc Lu Phan,
aren't you?
Yeah. I didn't think
he'd be able to get back
to work so quickly.
I guess he just
wants to do his job.
What do you make
of all this?
Could it have been Phan
who ordered the hit?
- Yeah.
- Well, he's certainly
violent enough.
But I really hope
it wasn't him.
Well, I didn't expect
to hear that
from someone who's trying
to get him the death penalty.
If Trelane thinks
that Phan's responsible
for his wife's death,
he's going to have
to recuse himself...
If he can't render a decision,
it's going to lead
to a mistrial.
And a waste of about
seven months of my life--
not that I've actually had
much of a life
- the past seven months.
- Tell me about it.
I think I know what you mean.
So, I heard Terry Lake
transferred to Washington.
Uh, yes, actually,
I guess
she wants to give her marriage
a second shot.
Have you had lunch yet?
No, I haven't.
- But, uh...
- Hey!
CHARLIE:
Perfect timing.
Hi. What are you doing here?
I... Well,
what do you think?
I'm here
looking for you, right?
Can you give me
a ride home?
- Yeah. I-I'm sorry.
- Thank you.
Nadine Hodges, this is
my brother Charlie.
Oh, hey.
Uh, I was at the DMV.
They gave me
my learner's permit back again.
Uh-oh.
Again?!
Yeah, I may
have mishandled
my learner's permit
the first time around.
Although I still take issue
with the methodology
utilized in radar speed
detection. It is, uh...
Did you get through
Trelane's files?
- He's working with you on this?
- CHARLIE: Yeah.
I think I'm onto something.
All right.
I got to deal with this.
How about
a rain check, okay?
NADINE: Sure. All right?
Sorry.
Boy, I, uh... I could've
just taken the bus
back to CalSci and
then went home.
Yeah, well, you're
about 15 seconds too late
with that thought.
Sorry.
( tires screeching )
What kind of biker gang
doesn't ride Harleys?
The urban kind.
Besides,
only investment bankers
can afford
Harleys anymore.
Why am I going to kill
the judge's wife?
Well, even in jail, Danny
still calls the shots, right?
The only way for you to sit
in the big chair over there
is for Danny to go
out of the picture, right?
This is a family.
We don't do each
other like that.
It's a family, huh?
RAYMOND: You know what, bro?
We're done here.
No, no, no, you got it
backward, Raymond.
This conversation's over
when we walk out of here.
Tell you what, man.
Why don't we run
some of those serial numbers
against the hot sheets?
This ain't right, yo!
( engines roaring,
tires squealing )
FBI!
( deliberately ):
Back down or everybody
gets arrested!
DAVID:
Federal agents! FBI!
Let this go any
further, Raymond,
and everybody in here is going
to end up with bullet holes.
Now, I know I
have better places
to be tonight than the hospital.
You got no warrant,
you come in here on my treaty,
and you want to step to me
like that?!
And we'll leave the same way, if
you give us a choice!
Anybody shows his gun,
we do not have a choice.
( speaking Vietnamese )
Let him go.
Yo?
Danny thinks
you did it, Raymond.
He pointed us
in your direction
to send you
a clear message.
The message is:
cooperate.
Understand?
Cooperate.
COLBY: Look, David, I get that
you're senior agent, okay?
But you could've backed
my play in there.
Man, it was a bad play.
You can't sell wolf tickets
to hard-core bangers.
"Wolf tickets"?
Granger, a badge
isn't a magic wand, okay?
You try to arrest
people without cause,
you back them into
a corner, guess what?
They're gonna fight you.
( motorcycle revving )
You say her
name is Hodges?
Yeah. Nadine.
She seemed pretty interested
in him, too,
although I'm not really good at
reading those kinds of signals.
No, you're not.
You know that term
"dark matter"?
That has always perplexed me.
It fallaciously implies
that the 95% of our universe
that can't be observed
is some amorphous,
eventless, just, uh, emptiness.
I'm sorry?
I suppose it's all too human.
Instead of just admitting
to the present limits
of our knowledge, we simply
declare things to be unknowable.
ALAN:
This somehow relates
to dating?
I'm sorry;
to reading signals.
Oh.
And, of course,
to Rhonda Pickford.
AMITA:
I'm not familiar
with her work.
She had a crush on me
in fifth grade.
- Oh.
- And, of course,
girls in fifth grade
suddenly became 95% unknowable.
( chuckles )
Isn't that the truth.
- I'm not following.
- LARRY: Oh, well...
you see, I labeled her
to be dark matter,
and I just moved on
to more accessible pursuits.
Like, uh...
( chuckling ):
...Space Invaders, actually.
So what happened to this,
um, uh... Rhonda?
Oh. She became
a professional cheerleader.
ALAN: Really? She did.
Yes, she did.
ALAN:
I doubt that Don
actually views women
as dark matter.
Well, she's a prosecutor.
I'm sure he'll see her again.
Actually, Don thinks
there's a chance
the man she's prosecuting may be
behind the murder
of the judge's wife.
You know something?
Under that reasoning,
wouldn't that
make this prosecutor
just as likely a target?
DAVID:
Raymond Hmong has the motive.
He's the number two, but I
don't think he has the nerve.
Yeah, well, Danny Phan's
got the nerve for sure,
but no motive.
Problem is Colby-- he really
pushed Raymond's buttons
out there, you know?
Okay, so?
Look, just keep
an eye on the JFM.
( sighs ) If we pick up that
Hmong's making a move,
- then we hit them, okay?
- No problem.
But this Colby, I mean,
I think he's running hot.
Yeah, well,
before you say
anything more,
he was just in here bitching
about you, so...
And what are wolf tickets?
It's a bad bluff, you know?
It's "The Boy Who Cried Wolf."
Don, I'm just
trying to say
Colby has
this Army mentality.
You know, he thinks
everybody's a private
who has to follow orders.
Don, he goes in
too hard...
You know, David, you were
the new guy last year,
and you were too laid-back.
Took you too long
to take initiative.
And you got better;
you improved.
- Yeah, I just thought...
- COLBY: Guys.
Hey, I was just
coming to get you--
Don wants us
to check out
some gang intel.
Yeah, well,
might not have to.
I just ran Trelane's address
through LAPD dispatch database,
see if there are any
prowler reports or anything.
And?
Look at this:
between May 2001
and June 2003,
LAPD responded to five
domestic disturbance calls
at Trelane's residence.
Apparently, they
had some knock-down,
drag-outs.
No criminal reports filed?
DON: Yeah, well, guy's a federal
judge.
No surprise there.
No, but look:
On two occasions,
Trelane was instructed
to vacate the premises.
DAVID: We've been assuming the
shooter
was after the judge and
got the wife by mistake.
Yeah. We might be
looking at this all wrong.
Thing is,
you neglected to mention
your history
of domestic disputes.
Because that's what
it was-- history.
You ever been unhappy
with your job, Agent Eppes?
Yes, I have, sir.
I'm talking about
a kind of unhappy that takes
an hour of silence and three
drinks to come down from.
Sitting in judgment
does not come naturally
to a reasonable man.
The drinking got worse,
and so did I.
Well, we're talking
about violence here.
I was never arrested.
You're a federal judge.
Even at my lowest point,
I never laid a hand on Alison.
I was angry with myself,
not with her.
- She called the police.
- Yes.
And she left me.
But that was my wakeup call.
I've been in the program
ever since.
- When did she come back?
- Last August.
Our last year together was
the happiest of our marriage.
Look...
knowing that she'd probably
still be alive,
that coming back to me and
my work is what killed her...
Do your job.
Check my alibi,
my bank accounts,
whatever you need...
and then find the bastard
that killed my wife.
CHARLIE:
So Bayes' theorem states
that uncertainty,
degrees of belief, can be
measured as probabilities.
Charlie, do
you realize
I spent two days
putting these files in order?
- Yeah, right.
- Uh, newest to oldest.
Why did you do that?
Because a criminal is much more
likely to act on his or her rage
right around the
time of conviction.
You know, while the focus
is still sharp?
Couldn't the opposite hold true?
A grudge festering over time,
new developments
aggravating it?
It would depend upon
the personality
and the situation.
So, if time functions
differently on different people,
then a chronological approach
would be no more effective
than choosing a folder
at random.
Okay, yeah, but you
have to start somewhere.
No.
You have to start everywhere.
These are report cards, okay?
But we're not looking for the
newest students, or the oldest.
We're looking for the one with
the highest grade point average.
With the grades being
for quantifiable behavior,
such as the nature
of the crime,
the severity of the sentence,
the potential for gain.
Yeah, but this isn't just a
handful of A's and B's, Charlie.
These are really raw
human motivations,
like rage and revenge.
Origami.
( groans )
In origami,
there are six basic folds:
mountain,
valley, diagonal,
fold and unfold;
reverse, and turnover.
Each fold is a simple, finite,
imminently-quantifiable action.
But the infinite number
of combinations
creates the possibility
for an infinite number of forms.
Decision theory contends
that we should use
the same basic criteria
with every action we take.
Risk, reward,
consequence,
and certainty.
Human behavior is
not that rational.
( chuckles )
Well, that's why my system
is not meant to be a replacement
for your skills.
It's simply a tool...
to help you use them...
much more efficiently.
( laughs gently )
( phone rings )
That's good.
Reeves.
Megan, it's David.
We just heard from an informant.
The JFM might take another shot
at the judge.
MEGAN:
Does Don know?
DAVID:
He's at the courthouse now.
- What's up?
- Hey.
We just got a tip that JFM
are looking for payback.
That could be Raymond Hmong
just talking big
for his gang members.
Well, given the timing, we're
taking the threat seriously.
The marshals are going
to put on additional men.
We're gonna have a second metal
detector out there, all right?
- Does Trelane know about it?
- Yeah.
He's a brave man; he didn't let
on in court today.
Well, he wants everything
as discreet as possible,
so I'm going to
supervise, all right?
So we're going to be seeing
a lot more of each other.
Yeah.
The marshals will give
you 24-hour protection.
Just make sure they have a copy
of your schedule, okay?
You hear me?
Sure.
I'll get right on that.
( agents yelling )
Get down!
Get down! You!
( indistinct conversation )
Get down! Get down!
( tires screeching )
Don't do it, don't do it!
Don't move!
Don't move-- I'll put two
bullets right in your back!
Put your hands
behind your back, Raymond!
DON:
So?
Well, suddenly, Raymond here
doesn't have much to say.
DON: You understand what you're
facing here, Raymond?
Murder,
attempted murder.
I didn't murder no one.
Come on, you killed
Alison Trelane.
What, you probably didn't
realize that she was borrowing
her husband's car
that day, right?
Then you went back
to finish
what Danny Phan sent you
to do in the first place.
I told you to cooperate,
remember that?
I want to know how Phan arranged
for all this, you hear me?
You testify against him
and I'll see what I can do
about the wife's murder.
I didn't kill nobody.
Self-defense.
DAVID:
Self-defense?!
Trying to gun down
an unarmed judge?
Is that what
a JFM soldier calls
"self-defense"
- these days?
- I wasn't aiming at no judge.
That bullet was for Danny.
That bro gave me up
to you, right?
Ain't no way he gonna
do me like that.
Not with him in there
and me out here.
I'm gotta have
my respect now,
you know what I'm saying?
So Raymond Hmong
figures Danny Phan's
trying to put the
murder off on him.
Well, I mean, you know,
Hmong's DNA tested negative
for the Trelane
crime scene, so,
that's the thing,
he's not our guy.
Well, on the bright
side, Trelane's free
to sentence Phan without
having to recuse himself.
Yeah, so you get
your case back
and I'm at square one
with the wife's murder.
So I guess
we're not going
to be seeing much of
each other, after all.
( sighs )
You know, I had you
written off earlier.
And then what
do you do,
you go and you
save my life.
Aw, don't write me off.
I just get focused on the work.
You know.
I don't know, Don.
We always got along,
timing never
seemed right.
I just thought...
Anyway.
Good luck with the case.
Nadine, I hope you realize
it's not about you.
Oh, I know that.
Good.
Thank you. For today.
And if you
figure out
the rest...
you could take your chances.
Okay.
( typing )
You know what?
It's fun to be doing a
little combinatorics again.
Combina-what?
Combinatorics.
It's a branch of
computer science.
Mm. Amita's
not satisfied
with just one
measly PhD.
She's now moved on
to astrophysics.
MEGAN ( chuckling ):
Well...
a girl's got to have skills.
And yet, somehow, we still
get stuck with the typing.
Well, you're familiar
with the program.
I'm not familiar
Oh, well, this is where
all the fun is, huh?
- Professor Fleinhardt.
- Hi, Larry.
This is Megan Reeves.
She's working
with Don.
- Uh, hi. Hi.
- Hi.
I hope you don't mind, I'm...
Oh, no, not at all.
You realize all
your food is white?
Mm, yes, I prefer white food.
Why is that?
Supersymmetry.
It's a theory that
describes the nature
of connectivity in complex
multidimensional space.
You know,
symmetry is also
a term we use
in behavioral science
to explain obsessive
behavior.
Oh, is it now?
I have a two-year-old
nephew who won't eat
anything but pasta
with butter.
We're a little
worried he might be
a budding scientist.
CHARLIE:
Larry has a tendency
to live out his theories.
MEGAN:
Oh.
Amita, are you ready
to show us
a 3-D scatterplot distribution
of all the relevant case?
Sure.
( beeping )
It looks like a random
buckshot of points.
Except for a small
number of cases
that stand out.
MEGAN:
Wow.
That's a lot less files
than I originally gave you.
Yeah, and we're
not even done yet.
Amita...
do you think
you can filter the rest
through something...
like this?
It looks kind of like
decision theory.
It's reverse
decision theory, actually.
In decision theory,
options are evaluated
by risk and reward.
LARRY:
Corporations use it
to weigh business plans,
what products to develop,
what companies
to do business with.
Like a hunter
searching for food.
He's constantly evaluating
his terrain,
his available prey,
and rival predators...
( growling )
...weighing them against
his own appetite,
his own strength, his needs,
until he makes what he
considers an optimal decision.
( gunshot )
However, with reverse
decision theory...
LARRY:
You take the optimal goal,
- and you reverse the process.
- In other words,
you start
with the final decision?
The murder of
Alison Trelane.
That's right.
And then, determine which
predator is most likely--
by inclination,
by opportunity--
to have made that decision.
( beeping )
MEGAN: Charlie's work distilled
our suspects down to two.
My lawyer didn't give me
adequate representation.
I got stuck with an incompetent,
underpaid public defender.
I'm completely innocent
of these charges.
Number one is Orson Hardee.
However... if I were
to meet the guy
who killed that cop,
I'd buy him a beer
for a job well done.
( remote control beeps )
All right, so Hardee's
a cop killer.
He shot Detective
Josh Kalen in a drug deal
in 1994.
Trelane was the judge.
The jury came back
in less than an hour.
Since his conviction,
he's become
a jailhouse attorney.
He's filed 16 appeals,
all of them denied.
Now he's gunning
for a new trial
in front of Trelane,
and Trelane's not buying it.
So, what, kill Trelane, he gets
a chance at another judge?
Perhaps.
Number two is Lance Dolan,
currently wanted
on a bench warrant
for assault.
LAPD believes
he's still in the area.
Well, I don't see
Trelane's name here.
'Cause Lance Dolan has never
been to court
with Judge Trelane.
CHARLIE:
However...
what's significant is
Lance Dolan was the only name
that entered the data pool
through a Crimestopper tip.
Oh, so you're saying
an informant says
this guy killed Alison Trelane.
Yes. And we're running
down that angle,
but his psych profiles are
in line with this kind of act.
But the only thing
that connects them is the tip?
There are
only two cases
that spiked extremely
high values in my analysis:
Orson Hardee, Lance Dolan.
Well, I mean,
I don't see a motive.
Yeah, but, Don, what
if you had no motive,
but you had, like,
a... partial fingerprint?
Follow the evidence.
So what's the difference
between my math
and a partial fingerprint?
And, at this point,
the Asian gang is a dead end.
( Don sighs )
All right, well,
we'll see what David and Colby
come up with about the tip,
but, meanwhile,
we should be looking
at this guy.
Hard.
It was a drug deal
that went bad.
Only when this animal, Hardee,
realized Josh was a cop,
he just shot him.
Just shot Josh in cold blood.
- Have a seat.
- Thanks.
Well, I'm very sorry.
Have you heard from anyone
connected to Hardee?
Phone calls, threatening
letters, anything like that?
You think he's coming
after me now?
He's not going anywhere,
but you've been very vocal
about keeping him in prison,
and we just would like
to take precautions.
Right. I understand.
( wry laugh )
It never stops.
Even with my husband's pension,
I had to work two jobs
to keep this house.
My daughter
ran away the day
she turned 17.
My son would be in jail
if some of Josh's friends
on the force hadn't stepped in.
People need to see
all of Hardee's crime,
not just Josh's murder,
but what it cost his family.
And you've been at all
the court dates, huh?
Every hearing,
every appeal, but, each time,
it gets a little harder.
People don't want
to remember.
They want to forget.
Forget about what this man
did to Josh.
But I won't let them.
So Charlie tells me you
were shot at this afternoon.
Huh? Again?
Oh, yeah?
Well, what Charlie
should've said was,
it was more like...
I was in the vicinity
of the shooting.
Let's put it that way.
He saved this prosecutor,
and yet, he still won't
ask her out, for some reason.
Really?
What's the problem?
Yeah, she's hot, man.
She's perfect.
- She's not perfect.
- She's interested in you.
You said she was perfect.
No, I didn't.
So, now,
you date only women
who have something wrong
with them?
I'm not dating anyone.
- So I noticed.
- Yeah, what's that about?
Look, you know, with what I do,
relationships are,
they're... they're just
not easy, okay?
Would you just trust me?
ALAN: Come on, Don, just because
something
might go wrong doesn't mean
that you don't take a shot.
You don't know what you're
talking about, okay?
It's more complicated than that.
Among other things, I... I don't
want to put anyone at risk.
I don't want to be
a risk for someone.
- You understand?
- ALAN: I see.
Which means that police,
and lawyers, and judges
shouldn't get married?
Yeah, well,
look at Judge Trelane.
Think I want to go through that?
No, sir.
Waitresses work
on tips, Hector.
You are Hector Machado,
right?
Maybe.
We want to talk
about Lance Dolan
and the Alison Trelane murder.
How'd you find me?
Actually, we know
quite a bit about you, Hector.
Like how the LAPD says
you have a knack
for getting thrown in jail
and hearing things.
I don't know
what you're talking about.
Come on.
So how about
a phone call
you made to a Crimestopper
tip line?
I thought that was supposed
to be confidential.
From the public, Hector,
not from the FBI.
You can't trust nobody no more.
The name you gave:
Lance Dolan.
What can you tell us?
Where's my 25 G's?
( pointedly ):
Where's Lance Dolan?
Figures.
( clears throat )
All right.
I met the guy in a bar.
He had that look,
like someone who has something
to say, so I got him drunk.
Out of the kindness
of your heart, huh?
Story comes on the TV
about the judge's wife,
Dolan laughs,
then he tells me there aren't
gonna be any arrests made,
as long as he gets
some cash together,
gets out of town.
Being the good citizen
that I am...
I called
the Crimestoppers line.
Right.
COLBY:
Guys, I just got back
from the LAPD
warrant squad.
Turns out Lance Dolan's
got a girlfriend.
Stacy Manning.
Arrests for burglary,
stolen property--
twice as his codefendant.
Yeah? Where's she at?
COLBY:
Venice.
We have her under surveillance,
in case Dolan shows.
See, that's the thing.
We're basing all of this
on the word
of a career informant.
CHARLIE:
Well, no, it's not just
based on the tip.
It's also based on my analysis.
Charlie, at some point,
I'm gonna have to explain
why I've got four agents
chasing down Lance Dolan.
And you know,
as far as I can tell,
from this equation...
Expression, Don.
What-- expression, equation--
you know, I don't understand
why Dolan gets such
a high number.
MEGAN: Well, there's the tip
itself,
of course, and there's also
his record,
and the psych profile.
CHARLIE:
Sure, uh, but, um,
there's also, um...
What?
Sometimes math finds something
that we can't explain.
And why Dolan
is showing up as part
of this case,
I can't fully explain.
It's, uh... it's pi.
Pi?
The ratio of circumferance
to the diameter of a circle.
Yeah, I know what pi is.
Okay, but did you know that
if you randomly drop needles
onto a sheet of lined paper,
the probabilty that a needle
will cross a line
relates directly to pi?
It's call Buffon's needle.
Pi appears
in quantum mechanics,
relativity theory,
and number theory.
But do you know why
pi would show up
in all of these seemingly
unrelated places?
Actually, I don't have a clue.
Neither do I.
No one does yet,
but, although
we can't fully explain pi,
it keeps working.
It keeps turning up.
DON: So, you're saying that pi
is like something
that connects Dolan
to Trelane, but we just can't
figure it out yet.
Lance Dolan's
bench warrant.
Guess who he's wanted
for stabbing last year?
Hector Machado.
Oh, yeah.
COLBY: Well, that could explain
why Hector's so willing
to snitch on Dolan.
Or set him up.
All righty. Well...
Pi.
DAVID: When you gave up Lance
Dolan
for Alison Trelane's murder,
you left out a detail
or two, man.
Yeah, like the fact
that he assaulted you last year.
Lance and I did some business
together.
There was a falling out.
DAVID:
Falling out?
The dude stabbed you, Hector.
( laughs )
COLBY:
Hector,
how long did you think
it was gonna take us
to figure that out?
I wasn't really sure.
Look, there's no
love lost between us,
but one thing ain't got
nothing to do with the other.
And you can check
the court records.
Lance got busted
for stabbing me
based on other witness accounts,
not mine.
I never said word one
against him.
Until now.
Well, now, he's worth $25,000.
( laughing )
Hector could just be trying to
get revenge
against the guy
who stabbed him.
Or he could be telling
the truth.
DON:
Hey, Megan,
where are we
on Orson Hardee?
I was just going over this
with Charlie.
Hardee is a sociopath
who brags about
killing a cop,
and then won't admit it.
He files legal documents
to prove his legal acumen...
And if he put together the hit
on Trelane from prison...
His intent would be
to let us know.
Which brings us to Dolan.
I mean, if we believe Hector,
but, I mean,
as far as I can see,
Dolan's got no motive.
Even though Dolan has
no apparent motivation,
my analysis still
says he's a suspect.
DAVID: Still no sign of Dolan
at the girlfriend's
house, either.
Look, we got
to find this guy already.
Did you see if Hector
could help us on that?
- We'll find out.
- Let's do it.
And Charlie, will you just
go over this with me?
Certainly.
Hey, Larry,
what brings you here?
Oh, I had some work to
go over with Charlie,
but he couldn't get
away from here, so,
the mountain comes,
yet again, to Mohammed.
Oh, yeah? So, it's not
the coffee then, huh?
Oh, oh, it is bitter.
Splenda.
Oh. Hey, Don, are you...
are you familiar with, um,
quantum entanglement?
Uh, I don't think so.
I'm not sure.
Okay, it's a theory that holds
that photons come in pairs,
that are separated
by space and time,
but always in instantaneous,
inexplicable communication.
Einstein calls it, uh,
"spooky action at a distance."
But, you know, I find it...
I find the notion
fairly romantic.
How so?
Well, uh, I mean,
we affect each other.
Even when we don't mean to,
even when we don't want to,
we're connected, you see, even
when we try to be unaffected.
Why do I get the feeling you're
talking about my love life?
Don, the universe
is accelerating at such a rate
that, some day, eventually,
it will all fly apart,
and all matter will just
drift alone
and become disconnected.
And how sad that would be
if human beings were
to behave in a similar fashion.
( stammering ):
And after
considerable inner debate,
I find
that the risks
of human contact are
more than compensated for
by the rewards.
I'll keep that in mind.
That was not clear.
( phone keypad beeping )
COLBY:
You know this guy,
right? So, this
should be easy.
When she answers,
ask for him.
Nothing fancy.
( phone line ringing )
Yeah?
HECTOR:
Is this Stacy?
STACY:
Who is this?
Hector. I'm a friend
of Lance's.
I need to talk to him.
He's not here.
Tell him
I heard the Feds
are looking for him.
STACY:
I don't know when I'll see him.
Whatever. Just tell him
I called.
Think I did
pretty good?
( keypad beeping )
( phone line ringing )
She's making the call.
LANCE:
What?
The Feds are coming. I think
that guy Hector gave you up.
- Now, why she assumes...
- Shh!
Leave right now,
come pick me up.
Okay.
That's it.
( engine revving )
( tires squealing )
Hurry up.
Come on.
( sirens blaring )
Put your hands
on the dashboard!
You hear me?
Get 'em up, right now!
Don't move.
Don't move an inch.
Get out of there.
( grunts )
Bring your hands
behind your back, thumbs up.
Ah, looks like we found the gun
that killed Alison Trelane.
Really.
Go figure. Let's go.
Who?
Alison Trelane.
We have DNA.
We have your shotgun.
Oh. And what kind
of deal do you have?
Look, we don't need a deal,
Lance.
MEGAN:
You killed a judge's wife.
Can you think
of a defense attorney in town
who's gonna want to wear
that bull's-eye on his back?
I didn't know who she was.
- Mrs. Trelane?
- I figured it was
just some guy who wanted
to get rid of his wife.
You're saying
Judge Trelane's involved?
I should have
known better.
Lance, what are
we talking about here?
It was a
straight contract:
5,000 down, 5,000 after.
I just thought
it was some guy's wife.
( auto-dial beeping )
Charlie, I can't talk,
all right?
We just picked up Lance Dolan.
Oh, good, because
I've reevaluated my analysis,
and what's significant is,
the algorithm wasn't indicating
Dolan or Hardee.
My math was connecting
the two cases.
That's why Dolan spiked
in the first place.
Don, these results
clearly indicate
that there's
a common denominator.
Something connects Dolan
to Hardee.
Yeah, we know, Charlie.
I'm looking at him right now,
okay?
I'm gonna call you back.
( over speaker ): They have
Lance Dolan talking next door.
COLBY:
That's right.
And the first name that
came out of his mouth
was yours.
Yeah, well,
we do have a history.
Yeah, you do.
Alison Trelane.
Contract killing
that you set up.
I'm gonna give you
five seconds to give me a name.
Otherwise, I'm gonna go grab
Lance Dolan,
and put him in here, and let the
two of you guys
figure it out yourselves.
( quietly scoffs )
You think I'm selling
wolf tickets, man?
Try me.
You got nothing on me.
I made an introduction.
That's all.
DAVID:
You made an introduction
to who, man?
HECTOR: I don't owe anything to
Lance Dolan.
I did to Josh Kalen.
Josh Kalen?
You mean Detective
The cop that Orson
Hardee murdered?
Kalen took care of me
for a lot of years.
Treated me like a real person.
COLBY: So, you kill Trelane's
wife after he sent
his murderer to jail?
What...?
I told you,
I introduced them.
Anything happens after--
that's got nothing
to do with me.
Conspiracy law.
You could look that up.
Who the hell
are you talking about,
Hector?
HECTOR:
I did everything I can.
Kept out of this
as long as I could.
Who?
Agent Eppes?
Mrs. Kalen, you're
gonna have to come with me.
Bring your hands behind
your back, thumbs up, please.
I don't suppose you could let me
put these away first.
Hands behind your back.
I'm sorry, no.
Ten years of trials
and appeals.
Parole hearings.
My stomach in knots.
Always wondering
if this was the time
Orson Hardee would go free.
Judge Trelane put the guy
in prison, ma'am.
Trelane kept the man who
slaughtered my husband alive.
The jury recommended
the death penalty.
Did you know that?
Only... Trelane
overruled them.
With that one decision,
he destroyed my family.
Hardee killed
your husband.
But it was the judge's decision
that forced us to relive it.
With every appeal,
my children had to relive
their father's murder.
And now Hardee wants
a new trial?
I just... I couldn't put them
through that again.
Why the judge's wife?
So Trelane would know
what it's like to lose someone.
So maybe he'd think twice
about the next killer
he goes easy on.
Watch your head, please.
"Goes easy on"?!
I tortured myself
over that decision.
I wanted to help her.
Give her closure.
Yeah, it's just
that Hector Machado was one
of her husband's informants.
I think she got his name out
of one of his old snitch books.
I had a responsibility
to the law.
I hope you know
her death is not your fault.
Eventually,
I might believe that.
I don't think I could ever
stop blaming myself
for all the time I wasted
being drunk, angry,
busy, when I really wasn't.
In spite of everything, I...
I still love my job.
I just should have loved
my life a little more.
ALAN: Okay, Don, it's time to
eat.
- Hey.
- You eat dinner yet?
Lobster at the Oceanfront.
Charlie's buying.
Let's go.
I'm driving.
Yeah, well,
that's not an incentive.
ALAN: Which is why I need a
witness.
Insurance purposes,
you know?
Nadine...
this is my father
Alan, and, uh,
Charlie you know, right?
Charlie, good to see you again.
How you doing?
I need to grab something
out of my car.
Can I just meet you out there?
- I'll be two seconds.
- All right.
- Nice to meet you.
- You, too.
Good seeing you again.
ALAN:
Wow, she is one
hot-looking prosecutor.
All right,
easy there, Pop.
I know I'm
your father,
but she's still one hot-looking
prosecutor.
DON: I'm trying to figure out
what to do about
Hector Machado.
I mean, this guy might end up
collecting reward money
for reporting a crime
that he probably arranged.
So, it's a working dinner.
Which explains the professional
working dinner cologne.
I never ruled out
the possibility
of some kind
of quantum entanglement.
- Hmm ?
- That's not one of mine.